### Pseudo-genome assembly generation using `chroder`
Biologically, syntenic regions are meaningful only for homologous regions. As a result, for SyRI to find SRs (which depend on identification of syntenic regions), it is necessary that the DNA molecules in the two genomes are homologous to each other. Typically, this would mean that the assemblies would be at chromosome-level. However, occasionally, one or even both assemblies would not be at chromosome-level. Since, it is not always possible to have such high contiguity assemblies, SyRI has `chroder` utility which can generate pseudo-chromosome like molecules. 

`chroder` analyses the whole-genome alignment between the two genomes. These genomes can be one chromosome-level assembly and one scaffold-level assembly or both scaffold-level assemblies. Thus species for which no chromosome-level assemblies are available can also be analysed. When one of the assemblies is at chromosome-level, then the scaffolds from the other assemblies are anchored to the chromosomes. Order of the scaffolds is determined based on the location in the chromosome where a scaffold aligns. Similarly, scaffold orientation in the pseudo-chromosome depends on the alignments with the chromosome. Scaffolds having inverted alignments with the chromosome are reverse-complemented, as a result all scaffolds are in forward orientation with respect to the chromosomes.

The position, in the chromosome, where the scaffolds From the alignments,   Based on the alignments, `chroder`     These molecules are formed by concatenating ordered and oriented scaffolds.  `chroder` can be used to generate pseudo-chromosomes even when ther This method can be used to generate pseudo consists of ordered and oriented scaffolds which are arranged so that to resemble   which can then be used to identify  when whoWhen a chromosome level assembly is not availableSyRI can be used to generate reference guided pseudo-genomes (pseudo-chromosomal assemblies) to analyse genomes for which chromosome level assemblies are not available. Incomplete assembly is aligned to the reference genomes and the alignment information allows anchoring of scaffolds to get pseudo-chromosomes. Though, highly useful, this may result in higher false negatives, as being reference guided some variation will be subdued.


```bash
#Steps:
nucmer --maxmatch -c 1000 -l 100 --noextend -p scaf refgenome qrygenome;
delta-filter -m -i 90 -l 100 scaf.delta > scaf_m_i90_l100.delta; 
show-coords -THrd scaf_m_i90_l100.delta > scaf_m_i90_l100.coords;
cat scaf_m_i90_l100.coords | cut -f10 | uniq | xargs -n 1 -I chr mummerplot -f -l -r chr -p chr scaf_m_i90_l100.delta;
scaffoldOrder qrygenome scaf_m_i90_l100.coords;
```

scaffoldorder will then use large and uniquely identifying scaffolds to generate pseudo-genome and will use the gnuplots (.gp) files generated by mummerplot to get orientiation information.
